# Eve
Project voor minor programmeren. 

Eve
===

*An app to help women keep track of their cycle. Eve had the intention to be
used in a contraceptive manner.*



In a day and age were health and quality of food are becoming more and more
important it isn't surprising that women are thinking twice about hormonal
anti-contraceptives. In the western world most girls start tacking the pill
around age 16. By the time they are 25 they have been pumping extra hormones in
their body for almost 10 years. Many women are looking for more natural and
traditional forms of family planning such as the calendar-based method. The
calendar-based method is already a widely used method for women trying to have a
baby and their are plenty of apps to help these women keep track of their cycle
and ovulation. These apps are however focused on seeking women to get pregnant
and not women trying to prevent this. Despite this many women looking to prevent
pregnancy are using these apps because their isn’t anything out there that
caters to their specific needs. Eve will have a clean-cut interface, no frills,
flowers and butterflies happy informing the user they are in their fertile
period. It will be a simple, stylish and most importantly no judgement app. A
tool women can use as they see fit. It will keep track of their cycle and it
will inform the user when they are fertile in a warning manner. It is the
intention the app has a humorous element. For example when informing the user
they are fertile it will display world disasters such as volcanos erupting and
nuclear bombs exploding. It will be a self-learning app that with user input
will become better at accurately predicting the users cycle.


[View initial sketch](Design/initialSketch.jpg)
 

 

### Features

The app can be used in combination with other contraceptives.

The user can set what to be informed on concerning her cycle, how and when:

-   The first day & last day of the fertile period

-   Everyday day of the month

-   Everyday day of the fertile period 

-   The days to take the pill

-   The days to not take the pil

-   The days to replace a non oral form of anti contraceptive

-   What time of the day to be informed 

-   On fertile days with or without humorous element such as a gif

 

 

### Swift API Frameworks 

-   UIKit Framework

-   Notification Center framework 

-   EventKit Framework

-   TodayWidget

 

 

### Potential Problems 

-   Connecting to the native calendar of the platform 

-   Sending personalised notifications

-   Sending notifications at time set by user 

 

 

### Similaire Applications 

Glow is the only app amongst those that keep track of a women’s cycle, that
offers a ‘don’t get pregnant’ option. A lot of pink and purple is used in the
interface design. This and the name make the app very girly and slightly off
putting if a women wants to use it as in a contraceptive manner. It also
requires an account which can be set-up using an Facebook or Google account. The
user has to enter a lot of personal details such as full-name, birthday and
email adres. The main interface is chaotic due to the large amount off extra
features and information. Because of the large amount off features the app
forcefully implements a guide through the app and it’s features which only
disappears after the user has followed all the instructions. Overall the app
doesn’t differ much from those intended to help women get pregnant and has an
overload of features making it difficult to navigate through. 

 

### Development Plan 

**week 1 **

    -   compleet visual en technical design document 

    -   prototype of user interface 

    -   create a user 

    -   add data concerning user’s cycle

**week 2**

    -   connect to phone’s date/calendar settings 

    -   correct calculation of cycle with user input

    -   add margins for extra information (information users inputs later on)

    -   recalculate cycle with this extra information  

**week 3 **

    -   calculate when to notify user on other contraceptive 

    -   send notifications on cycle en contraceptives

    -   edit settings to send notifications according to user’s preference
        settings 

**week 4**

    -   fine tune full working app

    -   edit design elements 
